---
title: "Paper review : PIGNet"
date: 2022-10-20
categories:
  - Paper review
tags:
  - Deep Learning
  - GNN
  - Drug design
  - Unfinished
toc: true
toc_label: "Table of Contents"
toc_icon: "fas fa-clipboard-list"
toc_sticky: true
---

## Paper information
Seokhuyn Moon, Wonho Zhung, Soojung Yang, Jaechang Lim, and Woo Youn Kim. 
"PIGNet: a physics-informed deep learning model toward generalized drug–target interaction predictions".
[*Chem. Sci.*, 2022, **13**, 3661]("")

## Abstract
Recently, deep neural network (DNN)-based drug–target interaction (DTI) models were highlighted for theirhigh accuracy with affordable computational costs. Yet, the models' insufficient generalization remainsa challenging problem in the practice ofin silicodrug discovery. We propose two key strategies toenhance generalization in the DTI model. Thefirst is to predict the atom–atom pairwise interactionsviaphysics-informed equations parameterized with neural networks and provides the total binding affinity ofa protein–ligand complex as their sum. We further improved the model generalization by augmentinga broader range of binding poses and ligands to training data. We validated our model, PIGNet, in thecomparative assessment of scoring functions (CASF) 2016, demonstrating the outperforming dockingand screening powers than previous methods. Our physics-informing strategy also enables theinterpretation of predicted affinities by visualizing the contribution of ligand substructures, providinginsights for further ligand optimization.

## Purpose


## Network characteristics

### Input / Output

### Network Scheme

## Results, Discussion







